docs: move callbacks info to docs, set up redirect (#243)
govau/notify: docs/src/content/callbacks.mdx

---
title: 'Callbacks'
---

import Examples from 'components/examples'
import Contents from 'components/table-of-contents'
import { SimplePanel } from 'components/panel'
import { Parameters, Parameter } from 'components/parameters'
import { H1, H2, H3, H4, H5 } from 'components/core/heading'

# Accepting callbacks

> A callback lets you receive messages from Notify to a URL you choose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A callback lets you receive message delivery updates and/or inbound SMS from Notify to a URL you choose.
```

`receive messages` sounds like the email/SMS itself

<span />

On a server you control, you should set up an endpoint that can accept POST
requests. Notify will POST messages in a JSON format to the endpoint you specify.

To ensure that callbacks are coming from Notify and not some other malicious
source, you will need to create a "bearer token" when setting up the callback
URL. A bearer token should be a long randomised piece of text that an attacker
wouldn't be able to impersonate.

**When creating a bearer token, you should:**

- keep your bearer token secure,
- change it if you have any reason to think it might no longer be trusted,
- make sure that callbacks you recieve from Notify contain your bearer token as an authorisation header,

> - and use a hashed value so that Notify doesn't hold the true token.

Reviewer 2: @dagoof I don't know that starting the bullet with `and` is correct, and also remove trailing commas and trailing period. See https://guides.service.gov.au/content-guide/writing-style/ (it's not actual list guidelines but in that example you can see a list...)

Author: I swear this used to be the guidance. Seems like it isn't anymore; will update

https://guides.service.gov.au/content-guide/content-structure/#bullet-point-lists

<Contents />

## Message delivery updates

When you send an email or text message through Notify, we can send a receipt to your callback URL to tell you if we were able to deliver it or not.

> ```json inline nonumbers

Reviewer 2: @dagoof should you add an intro above this like `In JSON, the messages you receive will look something like this:`?

{
	"id": "UUID",
	"reference": "12345678",
	"to": "person@example.com",
	"status": "delivered",
	"notification_type": "email",
	"created_at": "2017-05-14T12:15:30.000000Z",
	"completed_at": "2017-05-14T12:15:30.000000Z",
	"sent_at": "2017-05-14T12:15:30.000000Z"
}
```

> <SimplePanel label={<H3>Status update record fields</H3>}>

Reviewer 2: @dagoof the h3 heading here is not consistent with the h3 heading as it is below with Inbound SMS. Also, I'm getting stuck on `Status update record fields`—it feels like a mouthful. Can we just keep these h3's simple and name them as `Payload fields` rather than prefixing with the section we're in?

<Parameters>

>   <Parameter name="id" kind="UUID">Notify’s ID for the status receipts</Parameter>

Reviewer 2: @dagoof so is this the ID of the `Notification` that I sent or is this an ID of the callback? Maybe needs to be clearer.

  <Parameter name="reference" optional kind="string">The reference potentially sent with your API request</Parameter>
  <Parameter name="to" kind="string">The email address or phone number of the recipient</Parameter>
  <Parameter name="status" kind="string">

The status of the notification

Possible values:

- `delivered`
- `permanent-failure`
- `temporary-failure`
- `technical-failure`

</Parameter>
<Parameter name="notification_type" kind="string">

The notification type, `email` or `sms`

</Parameter>

>   <Parameter name="created_at" kind="string">The time the service sent the request</Parameter>

Reviewer 2: @dagoof for these dates, should you also say `The UTC <blah>` as you did below?

Reviewer 2: @dagoof also for all these dates should you specify the actual RFC format they will be formatted as?

  <Parameter name="completed_at" kind="string">The last time the status was updated</Parameter>
  <Parameter name="sent_at" optional kind="string">The time the notification was sent</Parameter>
</Parameters>
</SimplePanel>

## Inbound SMS messages

If your service receives text messages in Notify, we can forward them to your callback URL as soon as they arrive.

> ```json inline nonumbers

Reviewer 2: @dagoof as above.
